Tasks: EX 04 - IoT Protocols - MQTT.pdf

1. Use the paho-mqtt library and create two clients (publisher and a subscriber). Identify the 
meanings of the arguments that can be used when creating clients. 

Client ID: Unique client id when connecting to broker
Clean Session: Determines client type, if true – deletes all info about client on disconnect
Userdata: user defined data of any kind
Protocol: MQTT version for this client
Transport: network protocol? Default 

 
2. Connect the publishing client to a Broker. Use the on_connect method to observe the CONNACK 
reply from the Broker. What does the arguments on the on_connect function mean?  

2.	Client: The client instance for this callback

Userdata: the private userdata set in client() or user_data_set()
Flags: response flags set by the broker
Rc: connection result

 
3. Connect the subscribing client to the Broker. Make a subscription to the topic CyberSec/IKT520. 
Use the on_subscription function to learn about the SUBACK reply from the Broker. 

done, see subscriberOne
 
4. Publish a message to the topic CyberSec/IKT520. Investigate about the arguments in the PUBLISH 
message. Check whether the published message is received to the subscribing client. 

done, see subscriberOne and publiseherOne
 
5. Experiment with single-level and multi-level wildcard subscriptions.  

done, see subscriberOne and publiseherOne
 
6. Create a client and connect to the Broker with clean session set to FALSE. Then, subscribe to the 
topic Sensor/Temp with QoS 1. Disconnect the subscriber. Create another client and publish to 
the topic Sensor/Temp with QoS 1. Reconnect the subscriber. What is your observation? Give 
reasons. 

In this case we get the package, the subscriber says it wants to be remembered with clean session set to false.
And it says it will send comfirmation of received package with qos set to 1.
 
7. Create a client and connect to the Broker with clean session set to TRUE. Then, subscribe to the 
topic Sensor/Temp with QoS 1. Disconnect the subscriber. Create another client and publish to 
the topic Sensor/Temp with QoS 1. Reconnect the subscriber. What is your observation? Give 
reasons. 

In this case we wont get the package because the subscriber says it does not want to be remembered.
 
8. Create a client and connect to the Broker with clean session set to FALSE. Then, subscribe to the 
topic Sensor/Temp with QoS 0. Disconnect the subscriber. Create another client and publish to 
the topic Sensor/Temp with QoS 2. Reconnect the subscriber. What is your observation? Give 
reasons. 

in this case we wont get the package, even though the subscriber is remembered.
because when we disconnect the broker does not know, and since we have qos 0 on the subscriber,
the broker will not expect any comfirmation from the subscriber, so it sends the package to it while it is offline.